Added new search area override Mobile blog post (#89)
vertigis/studio-dev-center: blog/2025-05-02-mobile-override-search-area.mdx

<!--truncate-->

## 1 - Finding the Area to Override Search

To start off the work, we'll need to head to VertiGIS Studio Workflow and create a new blank Workflow. This Workflow will be used to override the search functionality in Mobile.

There are two ways of obtaining the extent numbers needed to override the search area: Using a layer's FullExtent property to obtain the extent, or using a feature action on a polygon feature to create a custom search area.

I will walk you through how to use both of these methods to enable the most amount of customization.

### 1.1 - Using a layer's FullExtent property to obtain the extent {#using-layer-bounds}

Using a layer to obtain the extent numbers is the more foolproof way since it doesn't involve hard-coding any specific numbers to Workflow.

:::info Note

> This is the recommended way as using a feature to obtain the extent numbers is a more complicated process.

Author: Changed

:::

Use the `Get Layer` activity to obtain a layer that will act as the basis of the search area. While testing, I found this to cover a much larger area than what's actually covered by the features of the layer so, although this works to extend the search area, developers who want a finer control of the search area override should use the method described in [section 1.2](#using-feature-bounds).

> Assuming the `Get Layer` activity's ID is `layer1`, we will be using `=$layer1.layer.Unwrap().FullExtent` as input to the `Set Property` activity. This is an undocumented function because it unwraps a layer from what we use in VertiGIS Studio products into ESRI's layer objects, so unwrapping layers should be done with care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the `Get Layer` activity's ID is `layer1`, we will be using `=$layer1.layer.Unwrap().FullExtent` as input to the `Set Property` activity. This is an undocumented function which unwraps a layer from what we use internally in VertiGIS Studio products into ESRI's layer objects.
```
The "should be done with care" bit sounds slightly scarier than it needs to be, since it doesn't exactly have any negative side effects.

> Assuming the `Get Layer` activity's ID is `layer1`, we will be using `=$layer1.layer.Unwrap().FullExtent` as input to the `Set Property` activity. This is an undocumented function because it unwraps a layer from what we use in VertiGIS Studio products into ESRI's layer objects, so unwrapping layers should be done with care.

Reviewer: I would reorganize the steps a little.

I think Step 1 should be adding the workflow to your app, which initially just does the same thing as the default search. i.e. gets the workflow input and runs the "tasks.search,results.display" activity with it. This is a clear starting point which allows them to test/debug/alert as they are going along with the other steps.

_Then_, explain that we're going to use Set Property to override the SearchArea in those arguments. The way it is now, when you mention that the geometry values will be in the input for the Set Property activity, there's no context for what Set Property activity you're talking about.

Reviewer: In fact -- if you're starting with a workflow override that doesn't do any layer specific stuff, you could provide the full json for the workflow that they could import.

Author: The Workflow would contain some layer- or geometry-specific info, and some irrelevant info like node positions, which is why I thought it wouldn't display very nicely in the blog.

Reviewer: Right, I wouldn't want to try displaying workflow .json in the blog post; but you could put the json file in this repo and link to it saying "you can import this json file into Workflow Designer to get started". Just the initial skeleton without the Get Layer activity.

### 1.2 - Using a feature's bounds to obtain the extent {#using-feature-bounds}

Creating a custom search area requires a bit more work to obtain the required extent numbers. Start off by creating a new blank Workflow, call it something along the lines of `Alert geometry JSON`. We will be using this Workflow as a feature action to obtain the extent values from a geometry.

To create the `Alert geometry JSON` Workflow, follow these steps:

1. Add a `Get Workflow Inputs` activity, this is used to obtain the passed feature through feature actions
2. Add a `Convert To JSON` next and use `=$getWorkflowInputs1.inputs.context[0].geometry` as the inputs to the `Object` parameter
3. Use a `Display Form` activity to display these results in a way that is easily copyable. Add a `Text Area` form element and a load event that replaces the text area's value with the output from the `Convert To JSON` activity
    <img src={useBaseUrl("img/mobile-set-text-area-with-json.png")} />

> Next, attach the `Alert geometry JSON` Workflow as a feature action on a polygon feature layer and launch the app in Go. Create a feature that belongs to that layer that covers the desired search area, and use the `Alert geometry JSON` feature action button to fill out the polygon extent numbers in a display form.

Reviewer: This seems really cumbersome and requires the customer to set up a polygon feature layer that they can experiment with... could you get similar results by drawing a geometry using the workflow geometry picker and getting the results from that instead of a feature geometry?

Reviewer: This is another thing that if you're just using the geometry picker you could provide a ready-to-use workflow that just has a polygon geometry picker and does the alerting.

Author: That is a good point, I'll give that a try and update the process if it worked! I wasn't sure if the geometry picker will get the same spatial reference projection as a feature layer, which is why I went with this.

Author: Tested it out with a geometry picker instead and it pretty much returned the same results so switched to that instead of the feature action stuff.

## 2 - Finishing the Workflow

After finding the search area values, the process is the same no matter which method of obtaining the search area you chose. After you've set up the Workflow as described in [section 1.1](#using-layer-bounds) or [section 1.2](#using-feature-bounds), add a `Get Workflow Inputs` activity with ID `getWorkflowInputs1` immediately afterwards.

Afterwards, add a `Set Property` activity. This activity is where we will replace the search area with the one we customized. Set up the activity as follows:

-   `Object`: Use `=$getWorkflowInputs1.inputs.context`
-   `Property Name`: Use `="SearchArea"`
-   `Property Value`:
    -   `=$layer1.layer.Unwrap().FullExtent` if you've followed [section 1.1](#using-layer-bounds).
    -   `=$geometry1.geometry.Polygon` if you've followed [section 1.2](#using-feature-bounds).

Lastly, add a `Run Command` activity configured as follows:

-   `Command Name`: `="tasks.search,results.display"`
-   `Command Parameter`: `=$getWorkflowInputs1.inputs.context`

We will be using this Workflow to override the default search behaviour in Mobile so that we change the search area prior to performing the search.

:::tip

> You may optionally add a graphical representation of the search area on the map. This might be helpful to visualize the search area and verify the work you've done. You can do so by adding a `Get Symbol From JSON` activity and populate its `Json` input as follows:

Reviewer: Great tip!

```json
={
  "type": "esriSFS",
  "style": "esriSFSSolid",
  "color": [34,237,24,150],
    "outline": {
    "type": "esriSLS",
    "style": "esriSLSSolid",
    "color": [110,110,110,150],
    "width": 1
  }
}
```

_You may change the opacity value, the last number in the `color` parameter, to a lower value for better visualization._

Then, add a `Create Feature` activity and fill out the inputs as follows:

-   `Geometry`: Use the same value you used to fill `Property Value` input in the `Set Property` activity.
-   `Symbol`: Use the symbol created in the `Get Symbol From JSON` activity.

:::

## 3 - Updating the Mobile app JSON and overriding the Search functionality

> To use this Workflow we've created in Mobile, it can be added as a launch link Workflow so it's hidden, but it can be added anywhere. It just needs to exist in Designer and be assigned an ID. Save the app after adding the Workflow.

Reviewer: I wonder if it's more straightforward to just manually create a "$type": "workflow" app item and put that in via the sudo editor; since we're already using the sudo editor anyway. Just as long as it won't get stripped out, but I don't think it would? (I think it doesn't even need a title property since it won't be showing up in the UI anywhere.) That way you cut out the step of having to look for the workflow via the title translation as you describe below.

Author: Good point, I don't know if Designer will recognize a manually-added item or if it will recognize whatever ID is given to it. I can give that a try and see what happens.

Author: Tested it out and it worked as you described. Added explanation on how to do it along with some samples.

---
title: Override Search Area in VertiGIS Studio Mobile
author: Jack Basha
authorTitle: Quality Assurance Analyst
authorURL: https://github.com/jackbasha
authorImageURL: https://github.com/jackbasha.png
tags: [mobile, search]
---

import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

VertiGIS Studio Mobile enables app developers to override the default search area, which is the current visible area of the map when the app is not backed by an MMPK, to a custom area (extent) of the developer's choosing. This requires hand-editing the app JSON and working out a few details. In this blog post, I will guide you on how to do that and how to define a custom extent for search to operate within.

<!--truncate-->

## 1 - Creating the Search Override Workflow {#creating-search-override-workflow}

To start off the work, we'll need to head to VertiGIS Studio Workflow and create a new blank Workflow. Call it `Search Override`. This Workflow will be used to override the search functionality in Mobile. Configure the Workflow in the following way:

1. Add a `Get Workflow Inputs` activity with ID `getWorkflowInputs1`

> 2. Add a `Set Property` activity, which we'll leave empty for now as we'll need to obtain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a `Set Property` activity, which we'll leave empty for now
```

Author: Oops, trailed off here and forgot to complete that sentence. Meant to say "we'll need to obtain the values needed in sections..." but I guess that's not really necessary. Thanks for pointing it out.

> 3. Add a `Run Command` activity; configure the parameter as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a `Run Command` activity; configure the parameters as follows:
```

Author: Fixed this and the next comment. Can't add a comment there for some reason.
